# Introduction

Facial recognition has seen remarkable growth in various domains such as
security surveillance, identification and social media platforms. A
crucial component of facial recognition systems is the generation of
facial embeddings. These embeddings are the single most essential part
of any system. If generated correctly, they can vastly improve the
efficiency of any system. These facial embeddings are represented as
high dimensional vectors representing distinctive facial features.

Traditionally, supervised approaches are based on the generation of
these facial embeddings, yielding high accuracy. However, this approach
demands a considerate amount of labeled data and costly annotations,
posing challenges in data acquisition. To address these limitations,
experts have delved into unsupervised and semi-supervised approaches
that rely on either unlabeled or partially labeled data, making them
more attractive for practical use.

In this research, we dive further into the exploration of
unsupervised and semi-supervised learning methods for generating facial
embeddings. We aim to investigate their effectiveness, capabilities and
scalability to traditional supervised approaches. Through empirical
evaluations and experimentations, we aim to provide insights into
potential benefits of adopting alternative methodologies. Ultimately, by
shifting the paradigm completely from solely relying on supervised
learning, we seek to pave the way for more efficient and robust facial
recognition systems, ultimately enhancing the user experience.
